# KDD-project
The Correlation of Education and the Gross Domestic Product of Numerous Countries

Education is the act of learning and teaching knowledge through different mediums. It is the most important pillar of growth and development. It facilitates the progress of an individual. It also helps unify different ideologies, opinions and connects people belonging to different backgrounds. Increase in knowledge leads to increase in opportunities. Education also helps aid communication among a group of people which leads to exchange of ideas and implementations. When an individual’s education level increases, the cognitive capacity of the individual also increases. As necessary as education is for an individual, it also acts as an important factor in the development of a country. Education is a very important investment for a country. The growth of a country could be increased with the increase in the number of educated and skilled workers. An individual that possesses the ability to analyse information with the help of logic and critical thinking can contribute positively to increase productivity and efficiency in any task that they are involved in. With more educated people, the number of employment opportunities increases. Significantly higher education rates are responsible for increase in human capital. Education helps in the thriving of the socio-economic wellbeing of a nation. Through our project, we intend to understand how much of a correlation exists between the average education levels of a country and its gross domestic product. We also intend to bring a sense of comparison between the education levels of a country through the past decades. We attempt to understand the level of growth of a country’s gross domestic product by analysing the percentage of citizens that are educated at different levels such as primary, secondary, tertiary, bachelors, graduate, and doctoral.


# Research Questions:

- What is the correlation between the graduation rates at various labels of education with the GDP of the country and expenditure on education by each country in the past 20 years?
- What is the correlation between the literacy rates of young adults with the GDP of the country and the poverty level of the country?
- Developing a Machine learning model to predict that given the GDP and High School Graduation rates of a country, what percent of the total budget does the government spend on - the education of the populace in the past 20 years.
- Developing a Machine Learning model to classify the countries according to their GDP given the expenditure on education and the literacy rate of young adults in the past 20 years.
